# ML Zoomcamp 2.5 — Linear Regression

[00:00] Welcome back. This is lesson five of Machine Learning Zoomcamp, session two, and now we will talk about linear regression. Linear regression is a model that we use for solving regression problems, meaning that we use it for predicting numbers: the output of the model is a number. You probably remember from the introduction that there is regression, there is classification, and there is ranking. So we are now talking about regression, and linear regression is a model for solving this. You probably also remember this formula that we used in the introduction lesson. Here g is

[00:47] our model, then X is the feature matrix, y is our target — in this case y is price — and this model g will be linear regression. Okay, and we will come back to this form. Here X is a matrix; we'll come back to this form, but before we do this, let's take a look at a simplified form. So let's look at

[01:35] the same one, but here, instead of looking at capital X, which is the entire feature matrix, we will look at only one observation. One observation is just a car, some car, and this is its price. So we don't look at all the cars and all the prices at the same time; we just look at one car. This car can be a row in our feature matrix, so we can think of it as a vector. It consists of multiple elements; let's say it's an n-dimensional vector. So the first element of this is

[02:30] xi1, then we have xi2, and so on, up to xin. So we have n elements here; this is our vector. What we actually want to have is a function that takes in all these features, from xi1 to xin, and then produces something that is close to the price. This is what we want to do. Regarding these x's: these are different characteristics of the cars that we have, of this

[03:18] specific car. So let's take a look at what we actually have in our dataset. We now will use the training dataset, because this is what we will use for training. Remember, this capital X is the feature matrix for training, so we don't look at validation, we don't look at testing, we only look at training here. We have quite a few rows here; let's take a look at row number 10. This is a Rolls-Royce,

[04:05] model Phantom Drophead Coupe, which was manufactured in 2015. We have all these characteristics. Let's just take engine horsepower, city miles per gallon, and popularity. We'll take these three just to make it a bit shorter; I don't want to take more, it would be a bit more difficult to explain. So for this particular car,

[04:52] for engine horsepower we have 453 — that's the power of our engine. Then for miles per gallon in the city we have 11, and then popularity is 86. So this is our feature matrix. Let's go back here and write it. This is xi, where i is actually 10, and for this x our first feature is engine horsepower, then miles per gallon in the city, and then popularity, 86. So now we need to write a function

[05:40] that takes in this xi and produces a prediction for this car. In code it looks something like this: let's call it `g`; it gets this `xi`, then it does something, and then returns a prediction. Let's say we predict that this car costs 10,000. So this is our xi,

[06:27] and then our function gives us something, and this is something we will need to implement. Of course we don't leave it like this; this is something we implement, and this will be our linear regression. So let's see how we can actually implement this. Okay, there's the drawing board. We need to combine these values in a way that we get something close to this, and for that, the formula for

[07:15] applying linear regression is this: g(xi) is, first, the bias term. This is the bias term — this is the prediction that we would make without knowing anything about the car. But we actually know something about the car: we know the engine horsepower, which in our case is xi1. And for this engine horsepower there is some weight w1, so we don't just take this feature as it is, we multiply it by some weight. Then we have another feature, which is miles per gallon in the city, which is xi2, and then we have a

[08:04] weight for this feature as well, w2. And then we also have the same for the last one, popularity. So this is the formula we have for linear regression. Let me copy it and move it to the next slide. We see here that we can actually replace this part with a sum. So we can write it like this: first we have the bias term, and then we have a sum.

[08:54] Because we already use i here, we'll use j here. The sum goes from one to three — we have three elements here — of wj times xij. It's just a more compact form of writing this. So now let's implement this; let's write this in code. This is our g; we can call it maybe `linear_regression`. We have our `xi`, and what we need to have is some `w0`, which is our bias term — let's set it

[09:41] to 0 for now — and then we have this `w`, which is a vector: we have the weight for each feature, so we have this one, this one, and this one. I don't know, let's put them to zeros for now, or ones. And this could be zero. What we need to do is implement this formula now. I'll just write it one more time: we have w0, and then we have a sum from one to three of wj xij. Because we use pandas and Python here, it

[10:30] should actually go not from one but from zero to three minus one, so in this case two. We can make it generic; let's make it n, the number of features we have. So it goes from zero to n minus one. Let's implement this. For us, `n` will be the length of this feature vector, and also the length of this weights vector — they should match, of course. Then here is our prediction: we start with `w0`, and then we have a loop, `for j in range(n)`,

[11:18] so we do it for every element, and we say `pred = pred + w[j] * xi[j]` — we basically add to the prediction every time. And then we return the prediction. This is our simple linear regression. It basically does a sum: for every element of our feature vector, we multiply it by the corresponding weight, and everything goes to the prediction. So at the end, the prediction has exactly this sum.

[12:09] And we can test it. It will not be really correct now. Did I not execute it? Let's use this `xi` example to execute it. It gives us some prediction, but it doesn't make much sense for now, because we just came up with these values ourselves. So let's put something else: for this one we can use 7.17, for this one 0.01, for this one 0.04, and for this one 0.002. We will of course talk about

[13:00] how we come up with these weights, but for now we have some weights, we have our feature vector, and we combine them and get a prediction. We have our bias term, which is 7.17. Then we multiply our feature engine horsepower by its weight, 0.01. Then we get the next feature, which is miles per gallon in the city, with its weight. And then finally we have popularity, which is 86, and then the weight for

[13:47] popularity. So this is what our prediction is made of — multiple parts — and as we see, at the end it's 12.3. So let's think about this: what does it actually mean? We start with the bias term, and this is what we predict about the car if we don't know anything about it. Let's say we don't know anything about the car; it's just an average car.

[14:34] What would be the price we predict for this car? For this car we say it's 7.17. But we actually do know something about the car; it's not just a car. We know that it has that many horsepowers, and for each of the horsepowers — let's say if this car had only one horsepower, then the price would increase by 0.01; if we have 100 times this, we get one. So basically, the more horsepower the engine has, the more expensive the car becomes. That's,

[15:21] I think, logical. Then the next feature is miles per gallon in the city. Apparently, the more the car consumes in the city, the more expensive it is. So for any extra mile per gallon, the price is affected by this much. Let's say we have a car that has 10 miles per gallon: then it would actually be less expensive than this by 0.04, and if we increase it to 11 we get a more expensive car. So for any extra mile per gallon the car becomes more and more

[16:08] expensive, and I think it can make sense, because the cars that consume more fuel are probably fancier; that's why we have this relationship. And then finally we have popularity, which is the number of mentions on Twitter, which has a pretty low weight, so it doesn't seem like it's affecting the price too much. For every extra mention on Twitter, the car becomes just a little bit more expensive. And it's not just one person; it's how many people mention this car in general. So really a lot of people need to mention this car for this to be popular and expensive. Maybe, like,

[16:56] Tesla, I don't know, because it's popular and people talk about it on social media, and for them maybe this number is very high and it really affects the price, but for usual cars it doesn't. Okay, so this is how we can make sense of this. And remember, this value we arrive at the end is not the final price, because we did the logarithm of y plus one. So now we need to undo this logarithm, and to undo the logarithm we need to take the exponent. So we need to do

[17:43] the exponent. Let's do this with NumPy: there's a function for the exponent, `np.exp`, and we just do it here. So for this car the prediction is 222,000 dollars. This is the prediction — and we forgot to do minus one. And actually there is a shortcut: we don't need to write minus one every time. Just like we have a shortcut for the logarithm, `np.log1p`, we have

[18:30] `np.expm1`. I think if we put this here, we should be back to this — they undo each other. So this is the prediction for this car. We implemented linear regression; we saw how to do this. Remember the formula that we have: we implemented this formula on a small vector of size three, and it was just one vector. In the next video we will try to generalize it to more examples. So see you soon.
