# ML Zoomcamp 2.13 — Regularization

[00:00] Welcome back. This is lesson 13 of Machine Learning Zoomcamp, session 2, and we will talk about regularization. In the previous lesson we added categorical variables: we implemented some code for handling these categorical variables and we added them to our `prepare_X` function. Actually, this is not the same code I used for the previous lesson — I lost this code and I had to rewrite it, but I think this is very similar to what we had to do. Then we extracted the feature matrix X, and then we had a very, very high root mean squared error. I think in the previous video it was a little bit lower, but yeah, it was very high. And when we looked at the weights, the weights were very high. In this lesson we will look at why it

[00:50] happens. Remember, the formula for the normal equation is this, for training our model: we have this Gram matrix, and then we multiply it by X transpose, and then we multiply it by y, and this is our w. The issue, the problem we have here, is with this part: we need to take an inverse of this Gram matrix, and sometimes this inverse doesn't exist. It usually happens when we have X, which is our matrix, right — we have multiple columns, multiple rows — and sometimes in this matrix, in the feature matrix, some features could be... let's say we have column two and column three; they could be duplicate features.

[01:38] And in this case, usually the inverse of X transpose X doesn't exist. We can quickly check it. I prepared the matrix here; you see that the first column is different, but the second and third have the same values, so it's a duplicate column. Let's turn it into a NumPy array. So yeah, we have this matrix `X` with our features, and now we want to compute this Gram matrix. What we see here is that this column and this column have the same values. So in this case, when something like that happens

[02:25] in a matrix we want to invert, the inverse simply doesn't exist, because, in linear algebra we say, one column is a linear combination of other columns, which means that it's possible to express column number three with other columns of the matrix — it's basically just a duplicate of column two, right? So let's see what happens when we try to invert it. We use this function for computing the inverse, and now it complains that this matrix is singular: it cannot compute the inverse of this, right? So the inverse of X transpose X doesn't always exist. This is not the case, though, for our

[03:13] particular problem: here we didn't see this error that this is a singular matrix. And the reason for that is that usually the data is not super clean, in a way that sometimes there is noise. Let's say when we record our observations, sometimes maybe instead of writing 5 we write 5.0000001, right? So in this case it's still the same matrix, except we add a tiny number here to one of the values, right? And then in this case we can see this is how this Gram matrix looks.

[04:01] Here these two columns are no longer the same; they are a little bit different. This one has this 0.05 and this one has... basically they're slightly different. So now this matrix is not exactly singular anymore: the third column is not a duplicate of the second column anymore. And what happens is this matrix actually becomes invertible — at least numerically invertible. So we see these huge numbers here, right? Let's try to invert it. It tries to find the inverse, even though the inverse shouldn't exist, so it kind of comes up with these huge numbers, right? So we have

[04:51] these very, very huge numbers. And when we multiply it by X transpose and by y — I think we need the y as well, so y could be, I don't know, 1, 2, 3, 4... We actually have three observations here. So if our y looks like that, then to compute the w — what we end up finding is that for this feature it's fine, this is the unique feature, but for the second and the third one it's basically just some large, large numbers. When we have a situation like

[05:39] that, when we have, let's say, duplicates in our feature matrix, then we have this problem. So to solve this problem, what we can do is add a small number to the diagonal of this matrix. Let's say we add a small number — I'll call it alpha here — on the diagonal; then it should solve our problem. Let me show you that on a smaller example. Let's take a smaller matrix that we can use to illustrate this — something like this, right? Again we have a column that is a duplicate of another column. What we want to do now is put it into an array

[06:29] and try to invert it. It complains, of course. Because we need to add a small number here, let's see... And here, now, you see that it is actually able to find an inverse, but the numbers are still quite big. If we add a few more digits here, they become even larger. And as I said, one way of fixing this problem is to add a small number to the diagonal. So we add a small number to the diagonal, and now that helps control...

[07:20] Now these numbers became smaller. And the larger the numbers we add to the diagonal, the more we have these weights under control. The reason it works is that by adding something on the diagonal, we make it less possible that column number three is a duplicate of column number two. To implement that, let's now undo everything — let's remove it. So now, yeah, we again have this problem. And what we can do to add the same number to the diagonal is — remember we have this identity matrix,

[08:08] say of size 3, right? This is our identity matrix. When we add the identity matrix to this X transpose X matrix, it adds one on the diagonal, right? Here we used to have one, now we have two; here we have two, here we have two. Now we can actually multiply this I by some small number, and this way we add only that small number to the diagonal. Let's call this also `XTX`, and when we try to invert it now, we don't have this problem anymore. So this is how we solve this problem, and this is called regularization. Regularization, I think, means

[08:57] here controlling: we're controlling the weights so that they don't grow too much. And this thing here is actually a parameter, right? The larger the number we have on the diagonal, the smaller actually the values of this inverse of X transpose X, right? So if we have something even bigger here, you see these numbers are very far from what we used to have previously. So in a way this becomes a parameter: how much regularization we add to our matrix. And with that, now we can re-implement the function we have — yeah, this one. So let's

[09:44] take this and slightly change it. I'll just call it `train_linear_regression_reg`, and then we have one more parameter, which I will call `r`, which is short for regularization. Let's say we have some default value for it, which is 0.01. What we need to do here is basically add a small number to the diagonal, so we need to know the size of our `XTX`: `XTX.shape[0]`. So now it will add — we actually need `r` — so we'll

[10:33] add this amount to the main diagonal, and the rest stays the same. All right, let's execute it. What we need to do now is take what we have here and just replace the function that we used previously with this new function, and let's use some value for `r`. Again we see that this result is actually not only much better than what we had with the non-regularized version, but it's also better than what we had before. So it's actually like 0.5 — this is what we had previously — so it's

[11:19] approximately a 0.5 improvement, which I would say is a considerable improvement. So by adding a number to the diagonal we were able to control our weights, to regularize our model. And this `r` is a parameter, because if we set it too high, then maybe our model becomes worse, right? So maybe we set it too high — yeah, you see, it's very difficult for the model to work. And if we set it too low, let's say if we use zero, then we are back to the usual linear regression. So now we actually need to find what the best value for `r` is, and this is what we will do in the next lesson.
