# ML Zoomcamp 2.7 — Training Linear Regression: Normal Equation

[00:02] Okay, welcome back. This is lesson seven of Machine Learning Zoomcamp, session two, and we will talk about training the machine learning model. In the previous lesson we saw how to apply a model: when we have a feature matrix and we have the weights, we know how to make predictions. Now we need to answer the question of how we actually come up with the weights, and we will do this now. Remember that for us this g(X), the function we have, looks like this: capital X, the feature matrix, times the

[00:49] weights vector. This is how it looks, and what we want is for this to be close to y. Ideally we want this to be equal to y, but often it's not possible to find an exact solution. So we need to solve this system: this is a system we need to solve for w, so we need to find a way to find w. Let's say this X is invertible. It means that there exists

[01:35] the matrix X to the power of −1, which is the inverse, and we need to multiply by it from this side as well. In this case, if this inverse existed, then this cancels, it becomes I, and what we have is this. So this is how you would solve this system if the inverse existed for X. However, as we talked about previously, this X is usually a rectangular matrix: it has a lot of rows and perhaps a few columns. So it has a dimensionality of

[02:23] m times (n+1), and it's definitely not square. For this matrix the inverse doesn't exist, so we cannot just go ahead and do that. For this system that we have, the solution doesn't exist, but we can try to find an approximate solution by multiplying this by X transpose here. This matrix, X transpose X, is called the Gram matrix, and for this matrix the inverse exists,

[03:10] usually, because it's square — it's always square. The dimension of this will be (n+1) times (n+1). So for this one the inverse should exist. It doesn't always exist — we will talk about this a bit later — but it's square, so the inverse can exist, and we can try to invert this matrix. So let's do that; let's move it a bit. What we can do now is multiply this by the inverse of this Gram matrix, and multiply it here by the inverse of the Gram matrix as well. Here, this is the

[03:57] inverse of this one, which means that this thing goes away: it becomes the identity matrix, which means that we are left with this part. We used to have I here, and I times w equals w, so this is gone; we can just remove it. So this actually gives us a way to find w.

[04:44] This w is not the solution to the system, because the solution doesn't exist, but this w is the closest possible solution to that system. I'm not going to prove it now. There are actually proofs for this claim, and they involve a lot of mathematics. There is a good book about this called The Elements of Statistical Learning, so you can refer to that book if you're really interested in how to derive this, because what I showed you now is more on the intuitive level. There is also a bit of theory behind it that is quite interesting, if you like this kind of thing; go check it out, I recommend it. So now we have this formula. Let me show

[05:32] it to you one more time. Now we need to implement this. Let's call it `train_linear_regression`, and the input is: we need X and we need y. I will not implement it right away; let's just go through this to understand what's going on here. First we have this X. We could use the same X, but this X is a bit problematic, because it has more columns than rows. I think what we can do is maybe just come up with more examples.

[06:21] It's problematic because for this kind of matrix the inverse will not necessarily exist; it probably will not exist at all. So let's just come up with a matrix ourselves. I'm creating a list of lists. Let's remove the ones; we'll see how to add them. And we need the commas. I'll just copy this thing one more time, and one more time, and change it to, let's say, two,

[07:09] five, just to have a bit of variation. I think this looks okay; I hope the inverse for this one will exist. Okay, so we have this matrix, and let me just have the formula here so we know what we are implementing: we have the inverse of this Gram matrix, then we have X transpose, and then we have y, and this is our vector w. So we'll have it here on our screen. First, let's calculate the Gram

[07:58] matrix. That's pretty simple: `X.T.dot(X)`. We have the Gram matrix; let's call it `XTX`. Then we need to find its inverse. We talked about this in the previous lesson, how to find the inverse of a matrix, `np.linalg.inv`, and it gives us the inverse; we can call it `XTX_inv`. We can quickly check that the multiplication between them gives us an identity matrix. We

[08:46] have ones on the diagonal. It's not exactly the identity matrix: there are these other numbers, but they are super tiny, so we can safely ignore them and treat them as zero. The reason for that is that machine precision is finite: it cannot do things with infinite precision, and that's why there are some leftovers. Anyway, so we have this one, and now we need to multiply it by X transpose and then multiply it by y. We don't have a y, of course, so let's have a y.

[09:35] It can be, I don't know, I'm just coming up with this on the spot. How many do we have? I need more, so let me just duplicate this, and I think we need one more. Okay, so this is actually our w. But we forgot about one thing: we forgot about the bias term. Because I forgot to add ones here, we basically trained the model but we didn't train the bias term. Sometimes it's possible,

[10:23] sometimes such models make sense, but we want to include the bias term because, as we talked about previously, the bias term gives us the baseline: this is how much a car should cost if we don't know anything about it. In case we don't include the bias term, we don't know what we should base our prediction on. So let's add ones here. We don't have ones here, so what we need to do is add another column at the beginning. For that, if you remember, there is a

[11:09] function called `np.ones`, and we just need to append these ones at the beginning of this matrix. I think it has nine rows, but just to be on the safe side, let's use `X.shape[0]`, which looks at the number of rows, and create this vector of ones. And then there is a function in NumPy called `np.column_stack`, which can take, let's say, two vectors and stack them together as columns, or we can take a matrix. You cannot see this

[11:56] because of the scientific notation, but basically it took the ones and then added the content of the matrix, and the result is a two-dimensional matrix. So we need just that. I thought rounding would help; it doesn't help. Okay, well, because these values are a bit larger, NumPy is trying to be smart with the notation. But basically it adds ones as the first column of this matrix. So this is our X now; we override it, and then we go through this same thing again.

[12:44] Let's call it `w_full`, because it contains all the weights, starting from the bias and then the rest. And we can decompose it: `w0` is the first one, `w_full[0]`, so this is the bias, and `w` is the rest, `w_full[1:]`, everything after index one. These are the coefficients that we have for our linear regression: this is the bias term, and this is w1, w2, and w3. You see that they actually are

[13:34] negative. We didn't have negative weights in our example — maybe if I had larger values here they wouldn't be negative. Basically, negative values here mean that instead of adding to the price — I don't know if we can still call it price here — they decrease it. In the example we had previously we had positive weights, meaning that for each extra horsepower in our car the price increases. But here, for this particular feature, let's say

[14:23] it's the age of a car: for each extra year of a car's age, the price decreases. So here we have this negative number, meaning that the price actually goes down. Okay, and what we need to do now, something we didn't do yet, is put this in a function. Let's just take everything that we did here and put it in: first we have the ones here, then

[15:10] we have our modified X here, then we do the normal equation — let's just put it in one line. This is the normal equation. And at the end we need to return the results, and I'll do this as a tuple: the first element of the tuple will be the bias term, and the rest are the weights. And if we do this once again, without the ones — we have the y here — we can quickly

[15:58] test it and train the linear regression. It gives the same results. Okay, so adding the ones happens inside, so as users we don't need to worry about adding ones to our feature matrix. Okay, so we implemented this function, and now let's use it for our problem: let's use it for predicting the price of a car.
