# ML Zoomcamp 2.16 — Car Price Prediction Project Summary

[00:01] Welcome back. This is the last lesson of session 2 of Machine Learning for Regression. Here we will summarize what we learned in the session. We did a project for predicting the price of a car. We downloaded a dataset that had prices and different characteristics of cars: we had things like model, make, engine, fuel type, transmission type, all these things, and we wanted to predict the price, MSRP, which stands for manufacturer's suggested retail price. First, what we did is clean the dataset; we prepared it so it looks

[00:50] a bit more uniform, because here we had spaces, uppercase, lowercase, and we made it uniform, so now it looks cleaner. Then we did exploratory data analysis, and here we identified that we have this long-tail distribution of price, and we removed the long tail by applying the logarithmic transformation to the data. This is a good idea because when the distribution has a long tail, machine learning models usually have problems. There was also missing data, and later we saw that with missing data

[01:42] we cannot really train a model, so we need to do something with it. Then we set up a validation framework: we did the split between training, validation, and test. Then we looked at linear regression — how it works for a single example. We implemented it as a simple formula using a for loop, and later we expanded it to the vector form, or matrix form, using a dot product, and we also expressed it as a matrix-vector multiplication. The result of linear regression, the output, is the weights:

[02:31] the bias term and the weights vector. Then we looked at how to actually train a model, how to obtain these weights, and we saw that machine learning is not magic — it's just a formula, and this formula is called the normal equation. We implemented this normal equation in NumPy; we have the implementation here. With this implementation we trained our first model, the baseline model, which only used the basic numerical features — five baseline features. The model didn't do really well, as we saw in the graph, but just judging from a graph, it's not

[03:19] easy to objectively measure the performance of a model. That's why we talked about root mean squared error, which is a metric for evaluating the quality of regression models. And then we built this validation framework: we used this `prepare_X` function, which allowed us to have the same way of preparing the feature matrix for different datasets, for train and validation, which later allowed us to experiment a lot faster. We just redefined this function, and that let us simplify the process: we basically just copy-pasted this cell

[04:05] throughout the session. Then, after that, we did simple feature engineering. Feature engineering is a process of creating new features from existing ones. We created the feature `age`, which improved the performance of our model drastically, as we see here: the distribution of the predicted values now matches the actual values — well, not exactly, but at least much better than previously. Then we looked at how to integrate categorical variables. Here we represented each categorical variable with a bunch of binary columns, binary features,

[04:53] and this way of encoding categorical variables is called one-hot encoding; we will talk about it in more detail in the next session, when we talk about classification. After that, we found out that the performance of our model degraded significantly: all of a sudden the RMSE became huge. Luckily, because we had this validation framework and this validation dataset, we could spot the problem easily. The reason for that was numerical instability, which we discussed next, and as a way to solve this numerical instability we used regularization: we added a small number to the diagonal of the matrix X transpose X before inverting it,

[05:41] which helped us. We saw that the performance of our model after including all these categorical features increased quite a lot compared to the previous version. After that, we tried different values of the regularization parameter to find out which is the best one, and we concluded that this one, 0.001 — maybe it's not the best, but it's on the same level as the others — so we decided to go with it. Then we trained our final model: we combined the training and validation datasets into one full train dataset, and we again

[06:29] used this `prepare_X` function, which is very convenient, and we trained our final model. We also saw how to apply this model to a car for which we don't know the price — well, actually we know, because this is the test dataset, but we pretended we don't know the price for this car — so we predicted the price, which wasn't that far off from the actual price. Next, I will not make a video for this one; it will be just text that you can read through, where I'll talk about other things you can try to learn about the topic better. And of course, after that there will be homework, where you'll try to do what we learned yourself.

[07:18] And then finally, in the next session we will talk about classification, and there, instead of implementing things ourselves like we did here, we will use a library — we will use scikit-learn for implementing all these things. We now saw how we can implement things ourselves, and now we are ready to use the library. So see you soon.
