# ML Zoomcamp 2.1 — Car Price Prediction Project

[00:00] Hello everyone, welcome to session two of Machine Learning Zoomcamp. In this session we will do a hands-on project, and we will implement the car price prediction model. So remember, in the introduction we talked about the scenario where we wanted to help a user of an online classifieds website for selling cars to come up with the best price. So a user who wants to sell a car needs help coming up with a price: they need to enter some price here, and if they don't know how much to put, we wanted to develop a model to help the user come up with the best price. And this is what we will actually do.

[00:48] In this session we will develop a model for doing that. For that we will use a dataset with car prices from Kaggle. It lives here, at this link. So let me go to the browser. This is the website, it's on Kaggle, and basically the data we have in this dataset is different features, different characteristics of cars, like make, model, year, engine and other properties, and also the price. And we can already see what kind of data is there: the make, the manufacturer, the model. So we can see all the kind of data we have: year, engine

[01:37] type, fuel type, etc. We don't see it here, but there is one column that is interesting for us, which is the price. I think it doesn't show everything. So we can see this MSRP: this is exactly the price of a car, so this is what we want to predict. And MSRP, I think, stands for... So MSRP stands for manufacturer suggested retail price. So this is basically the price of a car, right? So we have this dataset, and we want to use it to get all this information, all these features

[02:27] about the car, and we want to use them to make the prediction about the price of the car. So the plan for the project is: first we will get the data and do exploratory data analysis. We'll just look at the data and try to learn more about it. After doing that, and after preparing the dataset, we will train a linear regression on this dataset to predict the price of a car. Then we will go a bit into the details of how linear regression is implemented, so we will actually implement it ourselves. And then we will evaluate the quality of our model using RMSE. RMSE stands for

[03:16] root mean squared error, and this is a special metric that we can use for evaluating the quality of models. Then we will do a bit of feature engineering. Feature engineering is the process of creating new features, new characteristics that we can use for our model. And then, finally, we will have some problems with our model and we will see how we can solve these problems. These will be numerical stability problems, and we will see how to solve them with regularization; we'll talk about this concept of regularization a bit. And finally, we will use the model. All the code for this lesson is available in the GitHub repo for the book, and it's

[04:08] actually here: it's chapter two, car price. So all the code is there, and of course we will do live coding, and I will of course make the notebook available for you. So let's look at the code. First of all, it's in this `mlbookcamp-code`, which is the repo for the book, and then there's chapter two, car price, and there are two files. The first file is the notebook with all the code, so you can take a look; basically it has everything that we will do today. And then the second file is the CSV file, the

[04:57] actual dataset. So you can see, this is the CSV file that we will use for training our model. Okay, and what we will do next is actually not exploratory data analysis yet: we will look at the data and we will do a bit of data preparation. So this is what we will do next: we will take the CSV file and we will try to prepare it.
