# ML Zoomcamp 2.3 — Exploratory Data Analysis

[00:01] Welcome back. This is lesson three of Machine Learning Zoomcamp session two. In the previous lesson we stopped at looking at the columns of our data frame: we wanted to understand what columns are there and what they actually mean. And this is what we'll do now: we'll do exploratory data analysis. We want to understand what the data looks like, just to get a feeling for what kind of values are there, and to learn more about the data and about the problem. So we already know that some of these columns are strings, right? We also know that some of them

[00:49] are numbers. So we basically have strings and numbers, right? So let's try to see what we actually have there. This is our data frame. What we can do is take a look at each column here and try to understand what kind of data we have there. We have this `columns`, right, which gives us the list of columns. What we can do is just iterate over them, and for each of these columns print some statistics and maybe print some values, and see

[01:36] what kind of data is there. So let's do this. First we can print the column name, and maybe some values: print `df[col].head()`. So it tells us, okay, we have this... let me just add one extra line right here. So we have make, model, and this is what the first five values look like. So basically this is the manufacturer of a car, model, year. This is maybe not very informative, because these are just the first values. Maybe what is more interesting for us is to look at unique values, because here we get that it's all BMW.

[02:25] It's interesting to know what the other values are that we have there. So what we can do is call this method `unique`, and it returns the unique values in the series, so BMW will appear only once. We don't want to see all unique values, so let's just take a look at the first five. And perhaps what will also be interesting is to know how many unique values there are, and for that we use this `nunique`, which basically tells us how many unique values there are.

[03:13] So for example, the first one we have is the manufacturer, and these are the first unique values that we have: BMW, Audi, FIAT, Mercedes-Benz, Chrysler, and there are 48 different values. For model, of course, model is more granular, so there are more different models, because each manufacturer has multiple models; that's why we have a lot more values. Here is a numerical variable, a numerical column: it has different years, 28 of them. Then this is the type of engine fuel. I'm not a car expert; I know there's diesel and there are others, I guess. So there are ten different types.

[04:02] Then this one is engine horsepower: how powerful the engine is. How many cylinders there are, transmission type, driven wheels, and all these kinds of things we potentially can know about the car, all these characteristics. Then highway MPG: I think it's highway miles per gallon, how many miles it can drive per gallon of petrol, of fuel. Then city: how many miles you can drive in a city per gallon. And popularity: this is something the authors of this dataset did, they took a look at Twitter and counted how many mentions a car had. So basically the idea here is that a more popular

[04:50] car has more mentions. And then finally this MSRP: this is what we want to predict, these are the prices of cars. So of course there are many, many different values here. Okay, so this is the data we have, and now what we will do next is look at this price column more closely. For that we will visualize it: we want to look at it graphically, because looking at these numbers is not very informative; we don't see the big picture. So for plotting we will use two libraries: one is called Matplotlib, and the other

[05:37] one is Seaborn. Matplotlib is more of a low-level one, and Seaborn is a library on top of it that makes things easier; we'll see in a moment how to use it. And this line here is needed to make sure that all these plots can be displayed in a notebook, so we need to have this. What we want to look at now is the distribution of prices, to see how many different prices there are. Now, if you know what a histogram is, this is what we want to do; if you don't, you'll see now. So we want to plot the histogram of MSRP, and it will just

[06:24] show us the shape of the data. This is not very easy to see, so let's use a smaller number of bins. Bins is basically... let me execute. So you see here this bar: bins is how many bars we actually have. So here we would have 40 bars, or 50, sorry. We can also say let's have around 10, so the bars will be a lot bigger, right? So let's use 50. And what we see here is the distribution of the data. Note this notation here:

[07:12] this actually is 1 million. This is scientific notation: `1e6` means ten to the six, so this is basically one million. So what we see is that there are a lot of prices that are pretty cheap, like most of the cars are here, right? And then there are very few cars that are super expensive. So maybe there is just one car that costs one million, maybe there is one car that costs two million, maybe there is one car that costs 1.5 million, maybe there are a few cars that cost 1 million. So there are not so many of

[07:59] them, right? And the majority, most of the data, is concentrated here. This kind of distribution is called a long tail distribution, because you can think of this as a tail, right? It's very shallow: there are not so many values, but they have huge values, while most of the data is located here. So this is a long tail distribution. So we need to zoom in a bit. For that, what we can do is just look at prices that are not so large, let's say below 100,000.

[08:46] So here it's a bit clearer, and now we can actually see. I think what we are looking at here is this part, right? Only a little bit here; we don't look at this at all at this stage, we look only at this part, we just zoomed in on it. So this is what it looks like, and it's easier to actually see visually. So most of the cars are... this is maybe the average price, somewhere here.

[09:32] So we see that this is actually 1,000. We have this strange peak of cars that cost one thousand; probably this is the minimal price that it is possible to put on this platform, that's why we have a bunch of cars that cost one thousand. And then it slowly goes up to, I don't know, some 25,000, I think. We have a lot of cars, around 700 cars, that cost around 25,000, and then the number of cars with higher prices goes down. I think it's pretty reasonable to expect this kind of

[10:19] distribution; the only strange thing is here, this 1,000. So it's not unexpected to see a distribution like this, especially in prices. These long tail distributions are very common for prices, because most of the things are cheap for the general public, let's say, but there are a few super expensive ones. There are not so many people who can afford buying expensive ones, that's why there are not so many, but there are some people who can actually afford them; for those there are these very few expensive ones, but for the rest of the population we have cheaper cars. This kind of distribution is not really

[11:05] good for machine learning. This tail will confuse our model, right? It will really screw things up. So what we want to do is get rid of this long tail, and for that what we usually do is apply the logarithm to the price, and we get more compact values. Let me just show you: for large values, the value of the logarithm is not that large, right? So you see here, we go from 10 to 1,000, but the increase between the logarithms of them

[11:54] is not that high, right? So it kind of brings very high values and makes them lower. So this is what we want to use. The problem with just the logarithm is that if we have a zero here, then it complains, right? The logarithm of zero doesn't exist. Even though it's not the case for our particular data — in our case we have prices that are always 1,000 or more — it's pretty common to add one to all the values. So we just add one everywhere, and this way we make sure that we don't have this situation. The

[12:42] logarithm of one is zero, and the logarithm of zero doesn't exist, so we just add one everywhere, and that's how we make sure that things are always fine and we don't have these situations where we get problems. And we don't want to add this plus one manually every time, so there is actually a function in NumPy that can help us; it's a shortcut. It's called `log1p`. The "1p" stands for "plus one": it adds one to all the values and then it takes the logarithm. So this is actually

[13:29] the same as what we did previously, just for a few values typed in. So we see that the values here are exactly the same; NumPy just does this plus one for us. So we want to use this for our prices. Let's call it `log_price`, and we will use this `log1p` function. So now if we look at this series,

[14:19] it looks different: all these values became smaller. We can now plot a histogram; let's do this. This is what it looks like now. The tail is gone. You see that there is no tail: all these large prices kind of collapse into this area, right? And all the cars for usual consumers are still concentrated around here. And this shape now resembles a bit this bell curve shape; this is

[15:06] called the normal distribution. And having a distribution that looks like the normal one — even though, yeah, we have this weird peak here, but anyway, this looks more like normal — means we have a clear center of the distribution, and when it goes to the left or to the right, it goes down, right? This situation is ideal for models. If your target variable looks like that, models do quite well when they need to predict it; they do a lot better than with long tail distributions. Long tail

[15:54] distributions usually confuse models, so we typically want to get rid of long tail distributions, and one way of doing this is exactly what we just saw: applying the logarithm to the price. Okay, what we also want to do before we finish this lesson is look at the missing values. We have some data, and some of these values might be missing. I don't know if we saw it here when we were looking... yeah, let's say number of doors: you see that there is this NaN, not a number, which in pandas usually means that the value

[16:42] is missing; it wasn't recorded. So let's see how many of them there are. For that there is a function called `isnull` in pandas. For every cell it says whether the value in this cell is null or not, missing or not. It's not super useful in this form, that's why we do `sum`: it sums across columns, and then for each column it tells us how many missing values there are. And we see that there are quite a few missing values. So for some cars we don't know the fuel type, the market category, how many horsepower

[17:29] there are, how many cylinders there are. So this is something we'll need to keep in mind when we actually train our model. Okay, and that's it. We looked at the different values and tried to make sense of the data. Next, we looked at the distribution of the price and concluded that it has a long tail; that's why we removed the effect of the long tail with the logarithm transformation. And then finally, at the end, we looked at missing values, and we saw that there are missing values, and we know that

[18:15] before training the model we will need to do something with them. Okay, and in the next lesson we will talk about setting up the validation framework. Before we train a model, we need to make sure that we can validate the model, and we will set up this framework in the next lesson.
